# Employee-resume-shortlisting
In this task we aim to use neural models to shortlist candidates based on their resumes and the selection criteria provided by the client company. Our approach in this task is basically this, we first extract out the relevant information from the candidate's resume and then convert this text data into numerical vectors that will be then passed through a neural model along with vectors that represent the client company's selection criteria to finally decide whether the candidate should be selected, rejected or should go into the waiting list. As is apparent from this description the neural model is basically a classification model that will be classifying the candidate into three categories namely selected, rejected and waitlisted. The details are as below.

Extracting relevant text from Resume

A candidate resume contains several kinds of information such as previous work experience, educational qualifications, skill sets etc. We also get information regarding these aspects from the client companies side as to what qualities or experience they expect a candidate to have. Therefore the first step is to extract and separate the relevant portions of information from the resume which is usually in the form of a PDF document. We first extract the text data from the resume and separate it into three categories namely experience_text, education_text and skills_text. The experience_text contains information of the past work experience and job profiles of the candidate as well as the companies he or she has worked in. The education_text contains information regarding the educational_qualifications and the alma mater of the candidate. The skills_text contains more specific information regarding the skill sets of the candidate. 
Calculating vectors and scores

The skills_text is then used to calculate a skills score which takes into account what skills the client company deems desirable. This is done with the help of a trained machine learning model so as to effectively take into account the different skills that a candidate can mention. 
The education_text is used in a similar way to calculate an education score which takes into account the alma mater of the candidate. Finally the experience_text is used to create numerical vectors to represent the past job profiles and the corresponding companies that the candidate has worked in. The experience_text is first divided into different sections of text each corresponding to a particular job_profile and company. Also all sections are then arranged in an appropriate order so as to maintain the chronological order of the candidate's professional life. The data from the resume extraction step, like skill set and experience, are then clustered using a word embedding training model and K means clustering to finally get the skills clusters. Once the model is trained, the vectors are created for input resume, and the current job postings. The vectors are linear, of the same dimension as the number of clusters, and each entry is binary, 1 resembling that the skillset of the job applicant (from input resume), or from the job posting, lies in that particular cluster; and 0 resembling that it doesn’t. Such vectors are then fed into the RNN architecture for comparison algorithms. The education score, skills score, job profile vectors, past company representative vectors of the candidate and the corresponding job profile and company representative vector from the client company are then passed into the neural model. 

The Neural Model

The Neural Model is designed such that it can take in as input the education score, skills score, job profile vectors, past company representative vectors of the candidate and the corresponding job profile and company representative vector from the client company and use a RNN-LSTM model augmented with a standard neural network and finally a softmax layer to decide which category the candidate belongs to (the categories as mentioned earlier are selected, rejected and waitlisted).  The selected candidates are deemed ready for the next panel interview, the waitlisted ones may be notified later and the rejected candidates are not suitable for the company. 
